THROUGH THE LOOKING-GLASS

By Lewis Carroll


The Millennium Fulcrum Edition 1.7

CHAPTER I. Looking-Glass house

One thing was certain, that the WHITE kitten had had nothing to do with
it:--it was the black kitten's fault entirely. For the white kitten had
been having its face washed by the old cat for the last quarter of
an hour (and bearing it pretty well, considering); so you see that it
COULDN'T have had any hand in the mischief.

The way Dinah washed her children's faces was this: first she held the
poor thing down by its ear with one paw, and then with the other paw she
rubbed its face all over, the wrong way, beginning at the nose: and
just now, as I said, she was hard at work on the white kitten, which was
lying quite still and trying to purr--no doubt feeling that it was all
meant for its good.

But the black kitten had been finished with earlier in the afternoon,
and so, while Alice was sitting curled up in a corner of the great
arm-chair, half talking to herself and half asleep, the kitten had been
having a grand game of romps with the ball of worsted Alice had been
trying to wind up, and had been rolling it up and down till it had all
come undone again; and there it was, spread over the hearth-rug, all
knots and tangles, with the kitten running after its own tail in the
middle.

'Oh, you wicked little thing!' cried Alice, catching up the kitten, and
giving it a little kiss to make it understand that it was in disgrace.
'Really, Dinah ought to have taught you better manners! You OUGHT,
Dinah, you know you ought!' she added, looking reproachfully at the old
cat, and speaking in as cross a voice as she could manage--and then she
scrambled back into the arm-chair, taking the kitten and the worsted
with her, and began winding up the ball again. But she didn't get on
very fast, as she was talking all the time, sometimes to the kitten, and
sometimes to herself. Kitty sat very demurely on her knee, pretending to
watch the progress of the winding, and now and then putting out one
paw and gently touching the ball, as if it would be glad to help, if it
might.

'Do you know what to-morrow is, Kitty?' Alice began. 'You'd have guessed
if you'd been up in the window with me--only Dinah was making you tidy,
so you couldn't. I was watching the boys getting in sticks for the
bonfire--and it wants plenty of sticks, Kitty! Only it got so cold, and
it snowed so, they had to leave off. Never mind, Kitty, we'll go and
see the bonfire to-morrow.' Here Alice wound two or three turns of the
worsted round the kitten's neck, just to see how it would look: this led
to a scramble, in which the ball rolled down upon the floor, and yards
and yards of it got unwound again.

'Do you know, I was so angry, Kitty,' Alice went on as soon as they were
comfortably settled again, 'when I saw all the mischief you had been
doing, I was very nearly opening the window, and putting you out into
the snow! And you'd have deserved it, you little mischievous darling!
What have you got to say for yourself? Now don't interrupt me!' she
went on, holding up one finger. 'I'm going to tell you all your faults.
Number one: you squeaked twice while Dinah was washing your face this
morning. Now you can't deny it, Kitty: I heard you! What's that you
say?' (pretending that the kitten was speaking.) 'Her paw went into your
eye? Well, that's YOUR fault, for keeping your eyes open--if you'd
shut them tight up, it wouldn't have happened. Now don't make any more
excuses, but listen! Number two: you pulled Snowdrop away by the tail
just as I had put down the saucer of milk before her! What, you were
thirsty, were you? How do you know she wasn't thirsty too? Now for
number three: you unwound every bit of the worsted while I wasn't
looking!

'That's three faults, Kitty, and you've not been punished for any of
them yet. You know I'm saving up all your punishments for Wednesday
week--Suppose they had saved up all MY punishments!' she went on,
talking more to herself than the kitten. 'What WOULD they do at the end
of a year? I should be sent to prison, I suppose, when the day came.
Or--let me see--suppose each punishment was to be going without a
dinner: then, when the miserable day came, I should have to go without
fifty dinners at once! Well, I shouldn't mind THAT much! I'd far rather
go without them than eat them!

'Do you hear the snow against the window-panes, Kitty? How nice and soft
it sounds! Just as if some one was kissing the window all over outside.
I wonder if the snow LOVES the trees and fields, that it kisses them so
gently? And then it covers them up snug, you know, with a white quilt;
and perhaps it says, "Go to sleep, darlings, till the summer comes
again." And when they wake up in the summer, Kitty, they dress
themselves all in green, and dance about--whenever the wind blows--oh,
that's very pretty!' cried Alice, dropping the ball of worsted to clap
her hands. 'And I do so WISH it was true! I'm sure the woods look sleepy
in the autumn, when the leaves are getting brown.

'Kitty, can you play chess? Now, don't smile, my dear, I'm asking it
seriously. Because, when we were playing just now, you watched just as
if you understood it: and when I said "Check!" you purred! Well, it WAS
a nice check, Kitty, and really I might have won, if it hadn't been for
that nasty Knight, that came wiggling down among my pieces. Kitty, dear,
let's pretend--' And here I wish I could tell you half the things Alice
used to say, beginning with her favourite phrase 'Let's pretend.' She
had had quite a long argument with her sister only the day before--all
because Alice had begun with 'Let's pretend we're kings and queens;' and
her sister, who liked being very exact, had argued that they couldn't,
because there were only two of them, and Alice had been reduced at last
to say, 'Well, YOU can be one of them then, and I'LL be all the rest.'
And once she had really frightened her old nurse by shouting suddenly in
her ear, 'Nurse! Do let's pretend that I'm a hungry hyaena, and you're a
bone.'

But this is taking us away from Alice's speech to the kitten. 'Let's
pretend that you're the Red Queen, Kitty! Do you know, I think if you
sat up and folded your arms, you'd look exactly like her. Now do try,
there's a dear!' And Alice got the Red Queen off the table, and set it
up before the kitten as a model for it to imitate: however, the thing
didn't succeed, principally, Alice said, because the kitten wouldn't
fold its arms properly. So, to punish it, she held it up to the
Looking-glass, that it might see how sulky it was--'and if you're not
good directly,' she added, 'I'll put you through into Looking-glass
House. How would you like THAT?'

'Now, if you'll only attend, Kitty, and not talk so much, I'll tell you
all my ideas about Looking-glass House. First, there's the room you can
see through the glass--that's just the same as our drawing room, only
the things go the other way. I can see all of it when I get upon a
chair--all but the bit behind the fireplace. Oh! I do so wish I could
see THAT bit! I want so much to know whether they've a fire in the
winter: you never CAN tell, you know, unless our fire smokes, and then
smoke comes up in that room too--but that may be only pretence, just to
make it look as if they had a fire. Well then, the books are something
like our books, only the words go the wrong way; I know that, because
I've held up one of our books to the glass, and then they hold up one in
the other room.

'How would you like to live in Looking-glass House, Kitty? I wonder if
they'd give you milk in there? Perhaps Looking-glass milk isn't good
to drink--But oh, Kitty! now we come to the passage. You can just see a
little PEEP of the passage in Looking-glass House, if you leave the door
of our drawing-room wide open: and it's very like our passage as far
as you can see, only you know it may be quite different on beyond.
Oh, Kitty! how nice it would be if we could only get through into
Looking-glass House! I'm sure it's got, oh! such beautiful things in it!
Let's pretend there's a way of getting through into it, somehow, Kitty.
Let's pretend the glass has got all soft like gauze, so that we can get
through. Why, it's turning into a sort of mist now, I declare! It'll be
easy enough to get through--' She was up on the chimney-piece while she
said this, though she hardly knew how she had got there. And certainly
the glass WAS beginning to melt away, just like a bright silvery mist.

In another moment Alice was through the glass, and had jumped lightly
down into the Looking-glass room. The very first thing she did was
to look whether there was a fire in the fireplace, and she was quite
pleased to find that there was a real one, blazing away as brightly as
the one she had left behind. 'So I shall be as warm here as I was in the
old room,' thought Alice: 'warmer, in fact, because there'll be no one
here to scold me away from the fire. Oh, what fun it'll be, when they
see me through the glass in here, and can't get at me!'

Then she began looking about, and noticed that what could be seen from
the old room was quite common and uninteresting, but that all the rest
was as different as possible. For instance, the pictures on the
wall next the fire seemed to be all alive, and the very clock on
the chimney-piece (you know you can only see the back of it in the
Looking-glass) had got the face of a little old man, and grinned at her.

'They don't keep this room so tidy as the other,' Alice thought to
herself, as she noticed several of the chessmen down in the hearth among
the cinders: but in another moment, with a little 'Oh!' of surprise, she
was down on her hands and knees watching them. The chessmen were walking
about, two and two!

'Here are the Red King and the Red Queen,' Alice said (in a whisper, for
fear of frightening them), 'and there are the White King and the White
Queen sitting on the edge of the shovel--and here are two castles
walking arm in arm--I don't think they can hear me,' she went on, as she
put her head closer down, 'and I'm nearly sure they can't see me. I feel
somehow as if I were invisible--'

Here something began squeaking on the table behind Alice, and made her
turn her head just in time to see one of the White Pawns roll over and
begin kicking: she watched it with great curiosity to see what would
happen next.

'It is the voice of my child!' the White Queen cried out as she rushed
past the King, so violently that she knocked him over among the cinders.
'My precious Lily! My imperial kitten!' and she began scrambling wildly
up the side of the fender.

'Imperial fiddlestick!' said the King, rubbing his nose, which had been
hurt by the fall. He had a right to be a LITTLE annoyed with the Queen,
for he was covered with ashes from head to foot.

Alice was very anxious to be of use, and, as the poor little Lily was
nearly screaming herself into a fit, she hastily picked up the Queen and
set her on the table by the side of her noisy little daughter.

The Queen gasped, and sat down: the rapid journey through the air had
quite taken away her breath and for a minute or two she could do nothing
but hug the little Lily in silence. As soon as she had recovered her
breath a little, she called out to the White King, who was sitting
sulkily among the ashes, 'Mind the volcano!'

'What volcano?' said the King, looking up anxiously into the fire, as if
he thought that was the most likely place to find one.

'Blew--me--up,' panted the Queen, who was still a little out of breath.
'Mind you come up--the regular way--don't get blown up!'

Alice watched the White King as he slowly struggled up from bar to bar,
till at last she said, 'Why, you'll be hours and hours getting to the
table, at that rate. I'd far better help you, hadn't I?' But the King
took no notice of the question: it was quite clear that he could neither
hear her nor see her.

So Alice picked him up very gently, and lifted him across more slowly
than she had lifted the Queen, that she mightn't take his breath away:
but, before she put him on the table, she thought she might as well dust
him a little, he was so covered with ashes.

She said afterwards that she had never seen in all her life such a face
as the King made, when he found himself held in the air by an invisible
hand, and being dusted: he was far too much astonished to cry out, but
his eyes and his mouth went on getting larger and larger, and rounder
and rounder, till her hand shook so with laughing that she nearly let
him drop upon the floor.

'Oh! PLEASE don't make such faces, my dear!' she cried out, quite
forgetting that the King couldn't hear her. 'You make me laugh so that
I can hardly hold you! And don't keep your mouth so wide open! All the
ashes will get into it--there, now I think you're tidy enough!' she
added, as she smoothed his hair, and set him upon the table near the
Queen.

The King immediately fell flat on his back, and lay perfectly still: and
Alice was a little alarmed at what she had done, and went round the room
to see if she could find any water to throw over him. However, she could
find nothing but a bottle of ink, and when she got back with it she
found he had recovered, and he and the Queen were talking together in a
frightened whisper--so low, that Alice could hardly hear what they said.

The King was saying, 'I assure, you my dear, I turned cold to the very
ends of my whiskers!'

To which the Queen replied, 'You haven't got any whiskers.'

'The horror of that moment,' the King went on, 'I shall never, NEVER
forget!'

'You will, though,' the Queen said, 'if you don't make a memorandum of
it.'

Alice looked on with great interest as the King took an enormous
memorandum-book out of his pocket, and began writing. A sudden thought
struck her, and she took hold of the end of the pencil, which came some
way over his shoulder, and began writing for him.

The poor King looked puzzled and unhappy, and struggled with the pencil
for some time without saying anything; but Alice was too strong for him,
and at last he panted out, 'My dear! I really MUST get a thinner pencil.
I can't manage this one a bit; it writes all manner of things that I
don't intend--'

'What manner of things?' said the Queen, looking over the book (in which
Alice had put 'THE WHITE KNIGHT IS SLIDING DOWN THE POKER. HE BALANCES
VERY BADLY') 'That's not a memorandum of YOUR feelings!'

There was a book lying near Alice on the table, and while she sat
watching the White King (for she was still a little anxious about him,
and had the ink all ready to throw over him, in case he fainted again),
she turned over the leaves, to find some part that she could read,
'--for it's all in some language I don't know,' she said to herself.

It was like this.


             YKCOWREBBAJ

     sevot yhtils eht dna,gillirb sawT'
      ebaw eht ni elbmig dna eryg diD
        ,sevogorob eht erew ysmim llA
       .ebargtuo shtar emom eht dnA


She puzzled over this for some time, but at last a bright thought struck
her. 'Why, it's a Looking-glass book, of course! And if I hold it up to
a glass, the words will all go the right way again.'

This was the poem that Alice read.


             JABBERWOCKY

     'Twas brillig, and the slithy toves
      Did gyre and gimble in the wabe;
     All mimsy were the borogoves,
      And the mome raths outgrabe.

     'Beware the Jabberwock, my son!
      The jaws that bite, the claws that catch!
     Beware the Jubjub bird, and shun
      The frumious Bandersnatch!'

     He took his vorpal sword in hand:
      Long time the manxome foe he sought--
     So rested he by the Tumtum tree,
      And stood awhile in thought.

     And as in uffish thought he stood,
      The Jabberwock, with eyes of flame,
     Came whiffling through the tulgey wood,
      And burbled as it came!

     One, two! One, two! And through and through
      The vorpal blade went snicker-snack!
     He left it dead, and with its head
      He went galumphing back.

     'And hast thou slain the Jabberwock?
      Come to my arms, my beamish boy!
     O frabjous day! Callooh! Callay!'
      He chortled in his joy.

     'Twas brillig, and the slithy toves
      Did gyre and gimble in the wabe;
     All mimsy were the borogoves,
      And the mome raths outgrabe.


'It seems very pretty,' she said when she had finished it, 'but it's
RATHER hard to understand!' (You see she didn't like to confess, even
to herself, that she couldn't make it out at all.) 'Somehow it seems
to fill my head with ideas--only I don't exactly know what they are!
However, SOMEBODY killed SOMETHING: that's clear, at any rate--'

'But oh!' thought Alice, suddenly jumping up, 'if I don't make haste I
shall have to go back through the Looking-glass, before I've seen what
the rest of the house is like! Let's have a look at the garden first!'
She was out of the room in a moment, and ran down stairs--or, at least,
it wasn't exactly running, but a new invention of hers for getting down
stairs quickly and easily, as Alice said to herself. She just kept the
tips of her fingers on the hand-rail, and floated gently down without
even touching the stairs with her feet; then she floated on through the
hall, and would have gone straight out at the door in the same way, if
she hadn't caught hold of the door-post. She was getting a little giddy
with so much floating in the air, and was rather glad to find herself
walking again in the natural way.




CHAPTER II. The Garden of Live Flowers

'I should see the garden far better,' said Alice to herself, 'if I could
get to the top of that hill: and here's a path that leads straight to
it--at least, no, it doesn't do that--' (after going a few yards along
the path, and turning several sharp corners), 'but I suppose it will
at last. But how curiously it twists! It's more like a corkscrew than a
path! Well, THIS turn goes to the hill, I suppose--no, it doesn't! This
goes straight back to the house! Well then, I'll try it the other way.'

And so she did: wandering up and down, and trying turn after turn, but
always coming back to the house, do what she would. Indeed, once, when
she turned a corner rather more quickly than usual, she ran against it
before she could stop herself.

'It's no use talking about it,' Alice said, looking up at the house and
pretending it was arguing with her. 'I'm NOT going in again yet. I know
I should have to get through the Looking-glass again--back into the old
room--and there'd be an end of all my adventures!'

So, resolutely turning her back upon the house, she set out once more
down the path, determined to keep straight on till she got to the hill.
For a few minutes all went on well, and she was just saying, 'I really
SHALL do it this time--' when the path gave a sudden twist and shook
itself (as she described it afterwards), and the next moment she found
herself actually walking in at the door.

'Oh, it's too bad!' she cried. 'I never saw such a house for getting in
the way! Never!'

However, there was the hill full in sight, so there was nothing to be
done but start again. This time she came upon a large flower-bed, with a
border of daisies, and a willow-tree growing in the middle.

'O Tiger-lily,' said Alice, addressing herself to one that was waving
gracefully about in the wind, 'I WISH you could talk!'

'We CAN talk,' said the Tiger-lily: 'when there's anybody worth talking
to.'

Alice was so astonished that she could not speak for a minute: it quite
seemed to take her breath away. At length, as the Tiger-lily only went
on waving about, she spoke again, in a timid voice--almost in a whisper.
'And can ALL the flowers talk?'

'As well as YOU can,' said the Tiger-lily. 'And a great deal louder.'

'It isn't manners for us to begin, you know,' said the Rose, 'and I
really was wondering when you'd speak! Said I to myself, "Her face has
got SOME sense in it, though it's not a clever one!" Still, you're the
right colour, and that goes a long way.'

'I don't care about the colour,' the Tiger-lily remarked. 'If only her
petals curled up a little more, she'd be all right.'

Alice didn't like being criticised, so she began asking questions.
'Aren't you sometimes frightened at being planted out here, with nobody
to take care of you?'

'There's the tree in the middle,' said the Rose: 'what else is it good
for?'

'But what could it do, if any danger came?' Alice asked.

'It says "Bough-wough!"' cried a Daisy: 'that's why its branches are
called boughs!'

'Didn't you know THAT?' cried another Daisy, and here they all began
shouting together, till the air seemed quite full of little shrill
voices. 'Silence, every one of you!' cried the Tiger-lily, waving itself
passionately from side to side, and trembling with excitement. 'They
know I can't get at them!' it panted, bending its quivering head towards
Alice, 'or they wouldn't dare to do it!'

'Never mind!' Alice said in a soothing tone, and stooping down to the
daisies, who were just beginning again, she whispered, 'If you don't
hold your tongues, I'll pick you!'

There was silence in a moment, and several of the pink daisies turned
white.

'That's right!' said the Tiger-lily. 'The daisies are worst of all. When
one speaks, they all begin together, and it's enough to make one wither
to hear the way they go on!'

'How is it you can all talk so nicely?' Alice said, hoping to get it
into a better temper by a compliment. 'I've been in many gardens before,
but none of the flowers could talk.'

'Put your hand down, and feel the ground,' said the Tiger-lily. 'Then
you'll know why.'

Alice did so. 'It's very hard,' she said, 'but I don't see what that has
to do with it.'

'In most gardens,' the Tiger-lily said, 'they make the beds too soft--so
that the flowers are always asleep.'

This sounded a very good reason, and Alice was quite pleased to know it.
'I never thought of that before!' she said.

'It's MY opinion that you never think AT ALL,' the Rose said in a rather
severe tone.

'I never saw anybody that looked stupider,' a Violet said, so suddenly,
that Alice quite jumped; for it hadn't spoken before.

'Hold YOUR tongue!' cried the Tiger-lily. 'As if YOU ever saw anybody!
You keep your head under the leaves, and snore away there, till you know
no more what's going on in the world, than if you were a bud!'

'Are there any more people in the garden besides me?' Alice said, not
choosing to notice the Rose's last remark.

'There's one other flower in the garden that can move about like you,'
said the Rose. 'I wonder how you do it--' ('You're always wondering,'
said the Tiger-lily), 'but she's more bushy than you are.'

'Is she like me?' Alice asked eagerly, for the thought crossed her mind,
'There's another little girl in the garden, somewhere!'

'Well, she has the same awkward shape as you,' the Rose said, 'but she's
redder--and her petals are shorter, I think.'

'Her petals are done up close, almost like a dahlia,' the Tiger-lily
interrupted: 'not tumbled about anyhow, like yours.'

'But that's not YOUR fault,' the Rose added kindly: 'you're beginning
to fade, you know--and then one can't help one's petals getting a little
untidy.'

Alice didn't like this idea at all: so, to change the subject, she asked
'Does she ever come out here?'

'I daresay you'll see her soon,' said the Rose. 'She's one of the thorny
kind.'

'Where does she wear the thorns?' Alice asked with some curiosity.

'Why all round her head, of course,' the Rose replied. 'I was wondering
YOU hadn't got some too. I thought it was the regular rule.'

'She's coming!' cried the Larkspur. 'I hear her footstep, thump, thump,
thump, along the gravel-walk!'

Alice looked round eagerly, and found that it was the Red Queen. 'She's
grown a good deal!' was her first remark. She had indeed: when Alice
first found her in the ashes, she had been only three inches high--and
here she was, half a head taller than Alice herself!

'It's the fresh air that does it,' said the Rose: 'wonderfully fine air
it is, out here.'

'I think I'll go and meet her,' said Alice, for, though the flowers were
interesting enough, she felt that it would be far grander to have a talk
with a real Queen.

'You can't possibly do that,' said the Rose: '_I_ should advise you to
walk the other way.'

This sounded nonsense to Alice, so she said nothing, but set off at
once towards the Red Queen. To her surprise, she lost sight of her in a
moment, and found herself walking in at the front-door again.

A little provoked, she drew back, and after looking everywhere for the
queen (whom she spied out at last, a long way off), she thought she
would try the plan, this time, of walking in the opposite direction.

It succeeded beautifully. She had not been walking a minute before she
found herself face to face with the Red Queen, and full in sight of the
hill she had been so long aiming at.

'Where do you come from?' said the Red Queen. 'And where are you going?
Look up, speak nicely, and don't twiddle your fingers all the time.'

Alice attended to all these directions, and explained, as well as she
could, that she had lost her way.

'I don't know what you mean by YOUR way,' said the Queen: 'all the ways
about here belong to ME--but why did you come out here at all?' she
added in a kinder tone. 'Curtsey while you're thinking what to say, it
saves time.'

Alice wondered a little at this, but she was too much in awe of the
Queen to disbelieve it. 'I'll try it when I go home,' she thought to
herself, 'the next time I'm a little late for dinner.'

'It's time for you to answer now,' the Queen said, looking at her watch:
'open your mouth a LITTLE wider when you speak, and always say "your
Majesty."'

'I only wanted to see what the garden was like, your Majesty--'

'That's right,' said the Queen, patting her on the head, which Alice
didn't like at all, 'though, when you say "garden,"--I'VE seen gardens,
compared with which this would be a wilderness.'

Alice didn't dare to argue the point, but went on: '--and I thought I'd
try and find my way to the top of that hill--'

'When you say "hill,"' the Queen interrupted, '_I_ could show you hills,
in comparison with which you'd call that a valley.'

'No, I shouldn't,' said Alice, surprised into contradicting her at last:
'a hill CAN'T be a valley, you know. That would be nonsense--'

The Red Queen shook her head, 'You may call it "nonsense" if you like,'
she said, 'but I'VE heard nonsense, compared with which that would be as
sensible as a dictionary!'

Alice curtseyed again, as she was afraid from the Queen's tone that she
was a LITTLE offended: and they walked on in silence till they got to
the top of the little hill.

For some minutes Alice stood without speaking, looking out in all
directions over the country--and a most curious country it was. There
were a number of tiny little brooks running straight across it from side
to side, and the ground between was divided up into squares by a number
of little green hedges, that reached from brook to brook.

'I declare it's marked out just like a large chessboard!' Alice said at
last. 'There ought to be some men moving about somewhere--and so there
are!' She added in a tone of delight, and her heart began to beat quick
with excitement as she went on. 'It's a great huge game of chess that's
being played--all over the world--if this IS the world at all, you know.
Oh, what fun it is! How I WISH I was one of them! I wouldn't mind being
a Pawn, if only I might join--though of course I should LIKE to be a
Queen, best.'

She glanced rather shyly at the real Queen as she said this, but her
companion only smiled pleasantly, and said, 'That's easily managed. You
can be the White Queen's Pawn, if you like, as Lily's too young to
play; and you're in the Second Square to begin with: when you get to
the Eighth Square you'll be a Queen--' Just at this moment, somehow or
other, they began to run.

Alice never could quite make out, in thinking it over afterwards, how it
was that they began: all she remembers is, that they were running hand
in hand, and the Queen went so fast that it was all she could do to keep
up with her: and still the Queen kept crying 'Faster! Faster!' but Alice
felt she COULD NOT go faster, though she had not breath left to say so.

The most curious part of the thing was, that the trees and the other
things round them never changed their places at all: however fast they
went, they never seemed to pass anything. 'I wonder if all the things
move along with us?' thought poor puzzled Alice. And the Queen seemed to
guess her thoughts, for she cried, 'Faster! Don't try to talk!'

Not that Alice had any idea of doing THAT. She felt as if she would
never be able to talk again, she was getting so much out of breath: and
still the Queen cried 'Faster! Faster!' and dragged her along. 'Are we
nearly there?' Alice managed to pant out at last.

'Nearly there!' the Queen repeated. 'Why, we passed it ten minutes ago!
Faster!' And they ran on for a time in silence, with the wind whistling
in Alice's ears, and almost blowing her hair off her head, she fancied.

'Now! Now!' cried the Queen. 'Faster! Faster!' And they went so fast
that at last they seemed to skim through the air, hardly touching the
ground with their feet, till suddenly, just as Alice was getting quite
exhausted, they stopped, and she found herself sitting on the ground,
breathless and giddy.

The Queen propped her up against a tree, and said kindly, 'You may rest
a little now.'

Alice looked round her in great surprise. 'Why, I do believe we've been
under this tree the whole time! Everything's just as it was!'

'Of course it is,' said the Queen, 'what would you have it?'

'Well, in OUR country,' said Alice, still panting a little, 'you'd
generally get to somewhere else--if you ran very fast for a long time,
as we've been doing.'

'A slow sort of country!' said the Queen. 'Now, HERE, you see, it takes
all the running YOU can do, to keep in the same place. If you want to
get somewhere else, you must run at least twice as fast as that!'

'I'd rather not try, please!' said Alice. 'I'm quite content to stay
here--only I AM so hot and thirsty!'

'I know what YOU'D like!' the Queen said good-naturedly, taking a little
box out of her pocket. 'Have a biscuit?'

Alice thought it would not be civil to say 'No,' though it wasn't at all
what she wanted. So she took it, and ate it as well as she could: and it
was VERY dry; and she thought she had never been so nearly choked in all
her life.

'While you're refreshing yourself,' said the Queen, 'I'll just take
the measurements.' And she took a ribbon out of her pocket, marked in
inches, and began measuring the ground, and sticking little pegs in here
and there.

'At the end of two yards,' she said, putting in a peg to mark the
distance, 'I shall give you your directions--have another biscuit?'

'No, thank you,' said Alice: 'one's QUITE enough!'

'Thirst quenched, I hope?' said the Queen.

Alice did not know what to say to this, but luckily the Queen did not
wait for an answer, but went on. 'At the end of THREE yards I shall
repeat them--for fear of your forgetting them. At the end of FOUR, I
shall say good-bye. And at the end of FIVE, I shall go!'

She had got all the pegs put in by this time, and Alice looked on
with great interest as she returned to the tree, and then began slowly
walking down the row.

At the two-yard peg she faced round, and said, 'A pawn goes two squares
in its first move, you know. So you'll go VERY quickly through the Third
Square--by railway, I should think--and you'll find yourself in the
Fourth Square in no time. Well, THAT square belongs to Tweedledum and
Tweedledee--the Fifth is mostly water--the Sixth belongs to Humpty
Dumpty--But you make no remark?'

'I--I didn't know I had to make one--just then,' Alice faltered out.

'You SHOULD have said, "It's extremely kind of you to tell me all
this"--however, we'll suppose it said--the Seventh Square is all
forest--however, one of the Knights will show you the way--and in the
Eighth Square we shall be Queens together, and it's all feasting and
fun!' Alice got up and curtseyed, and sat down again.

At the next peg the Queen turned again, and this time she said, 'Speak
in French when you can't think of the English for a thing--turn out your
toes as you walk--and remember who you are!' She did not wait for Alice
to curtsey this time, but walked on quickly to the next peg, where she
turned for a moment to say 'good-bye,' and then hurried on to the last.

How it happened, Alice never knew, but exactly as she came to the last
peg, she was gone. Whether she vanished into the air, or whether she
ran quickly into the wood ('and she CAN run very fast!' thought Alice),
there was no way of guessing, but she was gone, and Alice began to
remember that she was a Pawn, and that it would soon be time for her to
move.




CHAPTER III. Looking-Glass Insects

Of course the first thing to do was to make a grand survey of the
country she was going to travel through. 'It's something very like
learning geography,' thought Alice, as she stood on tiptoe in hopes of
being able to see a little further. 'Principal rivers--there ARE none.
Principal mountains--I'm on the only one, but I don't think it's got any
name. Principal towns--why, what ARE those creatures, making honey down
there? They can't be bees--nobody ever saw bees a mile off, you know--'
and for some time she stood silent, watching one of them that was
bustling about among the flowers, poking its proboscis into them, 'just
as if it was a regular bee,' thought Alice.

However, this was anything but a regular bee: in fact it was an
elephant--as Alice soon found out, though the idea quite took her breath
away at first. 'And what enormous flowers they must be!' was her next
idea. 'Something like cottages with the roofs taken off, and stalks put
to them--and what quantities of honey they must make! I think I'll go
down and--no, I won't JUST yet,' she went on, checking herself just as
she was beginning to run down the hill, and trying to find some excuse
for turning shy so suddenly. 'It'll never do to go down among them
without a good long branch to brush them away--and what fun it'll be
when they ask me how I like my walk. I shall say--"Oh, I like it well
enough--"' (here came the favourite little toss of the head), '"only it
was so dusty and hot, and the elephants did tease so!"'

'I think I'll go down the other way,' she said after a pause: 'and
perhaps I may visit the elephants later on. Besides, I do so want to get
into the Third Square!'

So with this excuse she ran down the hill and jumped over the first of
the six little brooks.

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

'Tickets, please!' said the Guard, putting his head in at the window.
In a moment everybody was holding out a ticket: they were about the same
size as the people, and quite seemed to fill the carriage.

'Now then! Show your ticket, child!' the Guard went on, looking angrily
at Alice. And a great many voices all said together ('like the chorus of
a song,' thought Alice), 'Don't keep him waiting, child! Why, his time
is worth a thousand pounds a minute!'

'I'm afraid I haven't got one,' Alice said in a frightened tone: 'there
wasn't a ticket-office where I came from.' And again the chorus of
voices went on. 'There wasn't room for one where she came from. The land
there is worth a thousand pounds an inch!'

'Don't make excuses,' said the Guard: 'you should have bought one from
the engine-driver.' And once more the chorus of voices went on with 'The
man that drives the engine. Why, the smoke alone is worth a thousand
pounds a puff!'

Alice thought to herself, 'Then there's no use in speaking.' The
voices didn't join in this time, as she hadn't spoken, but to her
great surprise, they all THOUGHT in chorus (I hope you understand what
THINKING IN CHORUS means--for I must confess that _I_ don't), 'Better
say nothing at all. Language is worth a thousand pounds a word!'

'I shall dream about a thousand pounds tonight, I know I shall!' thought
Alice.

All this time the Guard was looking at her, first through a telescope,
then through a microscope, and then through an opera-glass. At last he
said, 'You're travelling the wrong way,' and shut up the window and went
away.

'So young a child,' said the gentleman sitting opposite to her (he was
dressed in white paper), 'ought to know which way she's going, even if
she doesn't know her own name!'

A Goat, that was sitting next to the gentleman in white, shut his
eyes and said in a loud voice, 'She ought to know her way to the
ticket-office, even if she doesn't know her alphabet!'

There was a Beetle sitting next to the Goat (it was a very queer
carriage-full of passengers altogether), and, as the rule seemed to be
that they should all speak in turn, HE went on with 'She'll have to go
back from here as luggage!'

Alice couldn't see who was sitting beyond the Beetle, but a hoarse voice
spoke next. 'Change engines--' it said, and was obliged to leave off.

'It sounds like a horse,' Alice thought to herself. And an extremely
small voice, close to her ear, said, 'You might make a joke on
that--something about "horse" and "hoarse," you know.'

Then a very gentle voice in the distance said, 'She must be labelled
"Lass, with care," you know--'

And after that other voices went on ('What a number of people there are
in the carriage!' thought Alice), saying, 'She must go by post, as she's
got a head on her--' 'She must be sent as a message by the telegraph--'
'She must draw the train herself the rest of the way--' and so on.

But the gentleman dressed in white paper leaned forwards and whispered
in her ear, 'Never mind what they all say, my dear, but take a
return-ticket every time the train stops.'

'Indeed I shan't!' Alice said rather impatiently. 'I don't belong to
this railway journey at all--I was in a wood just now--and I wish I
could get back there.'

'You might make a joke on THAT,' said the little voice close to her ear:
'something about "you WOULD if you could," you know.'

'Don't tease so,' said Alice, looking about in vain to see where the
voice came from; 'if you're so anxious to have a joke made, why don't
you make one yourself?'

The little voice sighed deeply: it was VERY unhappy, evidently, and
Alice would have said something pitying to comfort it, 'If it would only
sigh like other people!' she thought. But this was such a wonderfully
small sigh, that she wouldn't have heard it at all, if it hadn't come
QUITE close to her ear. The consequence of this was that it tickled her
ear very much, and quite took off her thoughts from the unhappiness of
the poor little creature.

'I know you are a friend,' the little voice went on; 'a dear friend, and
an old friend. And you won't hurt me, though I AM an insect.'

'What kind of insect?' Alice inquired a little anxiously. What she
really wanted to know was, whether it could sting or not, but she
thought this wouldn't be quite a civil question to ask.

'What, then you don't--' the little voice began, when it was drowned by
a shrill scream from the engine, and everybody jumped up in alarm, Alice
among the rest.

The Horse, who had put his head out of the window, quietly drew it in
and said, 'It's only a brook we have to jump over.' Everybody seemed
satisfied with this, though Alice felt a little nervous at the idea of
trains jumping at all. 'However, it'll take us into the Fourth Square,
that's some comfort!' she said to herself. In another moment she felt
the carriage rise straight up into the air, and in her fright she caught
at the thing nearest to her hand, which happened to be the Goat's beard.

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

But the beard seemed to melt away as she touched it, and she found
herself sitting quietly under a tree--while the Gnat (for that was the
insect she had been talking to) was balancing itself on a twig just over
her head, and fanning her with its wings.

It certainly was a VERY large Gnat: 'about the size of a chicken,' Alice
thought. Still, she couldn't feel nervous with it, after they had been
talking together so long.

'--then you don't like all insects?' the Gnat went on, as quietly as if
nothing had happened.

'I like them when they can talk,' Alice said. 'None of them ever talk,
where _I_ come from.'

'What sort of insects do you rejoice in, where YOU come from?' the Gnat
inquired.

'I don't REJOICE in insects at all,' Alice explained, 'because I'm
rather afraid of them--at least the large kinds. But I can tell you the
names of some of them.'

'Of course they answer to their names?' the Gnat remarked carelessly.

'I never knew them do it.'

'What's the use of their having names,' the Gnat said, 'if they won't
answer to them?'

'No use to THEM,' said Alice; 'but it's useful to the people who name
them, I suppose. If not, why do things have names at all?'

'I can't say,' the Gnat replied. 'Further on, in the wood down there,
they've got no names--however, go on with your list of insects: you're
wasting time.'

'Well, there's the Horse-fly,' Alice began, counting off the names on
her fingers.

'All right,' said the Gnat: 'half way up that bush, you'll see a
Rocking-horse-fly, if you look. It's made entirely of wood, and gets
about by swinging itself from branch to branch.'

'What does it live on?' Alice asked, with great curiosity.

'Sap and sawdust,' said the Gnat. 'Go on with the list.'

Alice looked up at the Rocking-horse-fly with great interest, and made
up her mind that it must have been just repainted, it looked so bright
and sticky; and then she went on.

'And there's the Dragon-fly.'

'Look on the branch above your head,' said the Gnat, 'and there you'll
find a snap-dragon-fly. Its body is made of plum-pudding, its wings of
holly-leaves, and its head is a raisin burning in brandy.'

'And what does it live on?'

'Frumenty and mince pie,' the Gnat replied; 'and it makes its nest in a
Christmas box.'

'And then there's the Butterfly,' Alice went on, after she had taken
a good look at the insect with its head on fire, and had thought to
herself, 'I wonder if that's the reason insects are so fond of flying
into candles--because they want to turn into Snap-dragon-flies!'

'Crawling at your feet,' said the Gnat (Alice drew her feet back in
some alarm), 'you may observe a Bread-and-Butterfly. Its wings are thin
slices of Bread-and-butter, its body is a crust, and its head is a lump
of sugar.'

'And what does IT live on?'

'Weak tea with cream in it.'

A new difficulty came into Alice's head. 'Supposing it couldn't find
any?' she suggested.

'Then it would die, of course.'

'But that must happen very often,' Alice remarked thoughtfully.

'It always happens,' said the Gnat.

After this, Alice was silent for a minute or two, pondering. The Gnat
amused itself meanwhile by humming round and round her head: at last
it settled again and remarked, 'I suppose you don't want to lose your
name?'

'No, indeed,' Alice said, a little anxiously.

'And yet I don't know,' the Gnat went on in a careless tone: 'only think
how convenient it would be if you could manage to go home without it!
For instance, if the governess wanted to call you to your lessons, she
would call out "come here--," and there she would have to leave off,
because there wouldn't be any name for her to call, and of course you
wouldn't have to go, you know.'

'That would never do, I'm sure,' said Alice: 'the governess would never
think of excusing me lessons for that. If she couldn't remember my name,
she'd call me "Miss!" as the servants do.'

'Well, if she said "Miss," and didn't say anything more,' the Gnat
remarked, 'of course you'd miss your lessons. That's a joke. I wish YOU
had made it.'

'Why do you wish _I_ had made it?' Alice asked. 'It's a very bad one.'

But the Gnat only sighed deeply, while two large tears came rolling down
its cheeks.

'You shouldn't make jokes,' Alice said, 'if it makes you so unhappy.'

Then came another of those melancholy little sighs, and this time the
poor Gnat really seemed to have sighed itself away, for, when Alice
looked up, there was nothing whatever to be seen on the twig, and, as
she was getting quite chilly with sitting still so long, she got up and
walked on.

She very soon came to an open field, with a wood on the other side of
it: it looked much darker than the last wood, and Alice felt a LITTLE
timid about going into it. However, on second thoughts, she made up her
mind to go on: 'for I certainly won't go BACK,' she thought to herself,
and this was the only way to the Eighth Square.

'This must be the wood,' she said thoughtfully to herself, 'where
things have no names. I wonder what'll become of MY name when I go in?
I shouldn't like to lose it at all--because they'd have to give me
another, and it would be almost certain to be an ugly one. But then
the fun would be trying to find the creature that had got my old
name! That's just like the advertisements, you know, when people lose
dogs--"ANSWERS TO THE NAME OF 'DASH:' HAD ON A BRASS COLLAR"--just fancy
calling everything you met "Alice," till one of them answered! Only they
wouldn't answer at all, if they were wise.'

She was rambling on in this way when she reached the wood: it looked
very cool and shady. 'Well, at any rate it's a great comfort,' she
said as she stepped under the trees, 'after being so hot, to get into
the--into WHAT?' she went on, rather surprised at not being able to
think of the word. 'I mean to get under the--under the--under THIS, you
know!' putting her hand on the trunk of the tree. 'What DOES it call
itself, I wonder? I do believe it's got no name--why, to be sure it
hasn't!'

She stood silent for a minute, thinking: then she suddenly began again.
'Then it really HAS happened, after all! And now, who am I? I WILL
remember, if I can! I'm determined to do it!' But being determined
didn't help much, and all she could say, after a great deal of puzzling,
was, 'L, I KNOW it begins with L!'

Just then a Fawn came wandering by: it looked at Alice with its large
gentle eyes, but didn't seem at all frightened. 'Here then! Here then!'
Alice said, as she held out her hand and tried to stroke it; but it only
started back a little, and then stood looking at her again.

'What do you call yourself?' the Fawn said at last. Such a soft sweet
voice it had!

'I wish I knew!' thought poor Alice. She answered, rather sadly,
'Nothing, just now.'

'Think again,' it said: 'that won't do.'

Alice thought, but nothing came of it. 'Please, would you tell me
what YOU call yourself?' she said timidly. 'I think that might help a
little.'

'I'll tell you, if you'll move a little further on,' the Fawn said. 'I
can't remember here.'

So they walked on together though the wood, Alice with her arms clasped
lovingly round the soft neck of the Fawn, till they came out into
another open field, and here the Fawn gave a sudden bound into the air,
and shook itself free from Alice's arms. 'I'm a Fawn!' it cried out in a
voice of delight, 'and, dear me! you're a human child!' A sudden look of
alarm came into its beautiful brown eyes, and in another moment it had
darted away at full speed.

Alice stood looking after it, almost ready to cry with vexation at
having lost her dear little fellow-traveller so suddenly. 'However, I
know my name now.' she said, 'that's SOME comfort. Alice--Alice--I won't
forget it again. And now, which of these finger-posts ought I to follow,
I wonder?'

It was not a very difficult question to answer, as there was only one
road through the wood, and the two finger-posts both pointed along it.
'I'll settle it,' Alice said to herself, 'when the road divides and they
point different ways.'

But this did not seem likely to happen. She went on and on, a long way,
but wherever the road divided there were sure to be two finger-posts
pointing the same way, one marked 'TO TWEEDLEDUM'S HOUSE' and the other
'TO THE HOUSE OF TWEEDLEDEE.'

'I do believe,' said Alice at last, 'that they live in the same house! I
wonder I never thought of that before--But I can't stay there long. I'll
just call and say "how d'you do?" and ask them the way out of the wood.
If I could only get to the Eighth Square before it gets dark!' So she
wandered on, talking to herself as she went, till, on turning a sharp
corner, she came upon two fat little men, so suddenly that she could not
help starting back, but in another moment she recovered herself, feeling
sure that they must be.




CHAPTER IV. Tweedledum And Tweedledee

They were standing under a tree, each with an arm round the other's
neck, and Alice knew which was which in a moment, because one of them
had 'DUM' embroidered on his collar, and the other 'DEE.' 'I suppose
they've each got "TWEEDLE" round at the back of the collar,' she said to
herself.

They stood so still that she quite forgot they were alive, and she was
just looking round to see if the word "TWEEDLE" was written at the back
of each collar, when she was startled by a voice coming from the one
marked 'DUM.'

'If you think we're wax-works,' he said, 'you ought to pay, you know.
Wax-works weren't made to be looked at for nothing, nohow!'

'Contrariwise,' added the one marked 'DEE,' 'if you think we're alive,
you ought to speak.'

'I'm sure I'm very sorry,' was all Alice could say; for the words of the
old song kept ringing through her head like the ticking of a clock, and
she could hardly help saying them out loud:--


     'Tweedledum and Tweedledee
      Agreed to have a battle;
     For Tweedledum said Tweedledee
      Had spoiled his nice new rattle.

     Just then flew down a monstrous crow,
      As black as a tar-barrel;
     Which frightened both the heroes so,
      They quite forgot their quarrel.'

'I know what you're thinking about,' said Tweedledum: 'but it isn't so,
nohow.'

'Contrariwise,' continued Tweedledee, 'if it was so, it might be; and if
it were so, it would be; but as it isn't, it ain't. That's logic.'

'I was thinking,' Alice said very politely, 'which is the best way out
of this wood: it's getting so dark. Would you tell me, please?'

But the little men only looked at each other and grinned.

They looked so exactly like a couple of great schoolboys, that Alice
couldn't help pointing her finger at Tweedledum, and saying 'First Boy!'

'Nohow!' Tweedledum cried out briskly, and shut his mouth up again with
a snap.

'Next Boy!' said Alice, passing on to Tweedledee, though she felt quite
certain he would only shout out 'Contrariwise!' and so he did.

'You've been wrong!' cried Tweedledum. 'The first thing in a visit is to
say "How d'ye do?" and shake hands!' And here the two brothers gave each
other a hug, and then they held out the two hands that were free, to
shake hands with her.

Alice did not like shaking hands with either of them first, for fear
of hurting the other one's feelings; so, as the best way out of the
difficulty, she took hold of both hands at once: the next moment they
were dancing round in a ring. This seemed quite natural (she remembered
afterwards), and she was not even surprised to hear music playing: it
seemed to come from the tree under which they were dancing, and it was
done (as well as she could make it out) by the branches rubbing one
across the other, like fiddles and fiddle-sticks.

'But it certainly WAS funny,' (Alice said afterwards, when she was
telling her sister the history of all this,) 'to find myself singing
"HERE WE GO ROUND THE MULBERRY BUSH." I don't know when I began it, but
somehow I felt as if I'd been singing it a long long time!'

The other two dancers were fat, and very soon out of breath. 'Four times
round is enough for one dance,' Tweedledum panted out, and they left
off dancing as suddenly as they had begun: the music stopped at the same
moment.

Then they let go of Alice's hands, and stood looking at her for a
minute: there was a rather awkward pause, as Alice didn't know how to
begin a conversation with people she had just been dancing with. 'It
would never do to say "How d'ye do?" NOW,' she said to herself: 'we seem
to have got beyond that, somehow!'

'I hope you're not much tired?' she said at last.

'Nohow. And thank you VERY much for asking,' said Tweedledum.

'So much obliged!' added Tweedledee. 'You like poetry?'

'Ye-es, pretty well--SOME poetry,' Alice said doubtfully. 'Would you
tell me which road leads out of the wood?'

'What shall I repeat to her?' said Tweedledee, looking round at
Tweedledum with great solemn eyes, and not noticing Alice's question.

'"THE WALRUS AND THE CARPENTER" is the longest,' Tweedledum replied,
giving his brother an affectionate hug.

Tweedledee began instantly:

       'The sun was shining--'

Here Alice ventured to interrupt him. 'If it's VERY long,' she said, as
politely as she could, 'would you please tell me first which road--'

Tweedledee smiled gently, and began again:

     'The sun was shining on the sea,
      Shining with all his might:
     He did his very best to make
      The billows smooth and bright--
     And this was odd, because it was
      The middle of the night.

     The moon was shining sulkily,
      Because she thought the sun
     Had got no business to be there
      After the day was done--
     "It's very rude of him," she said,
      "To come and spoil the fun!"

     The sea was wet as wet could be,
      The sands were dry as dry.
     You could not see a cloud, because
      No cloud was in the sky:
     No birds were flying over head--
      There were no birds to fly.

     The Walrus and the Carpenter
      Were walking close at hand;
     They wept like anything to see
      Such quantities of sand:
     "If this were only cleared away,"
      They said, "it WOULD be grand!"

     "If seven maids with seven mops
      Swept it for half a year,
     Do you suppose," the Walrus said,
      "That they could get it clear?"
     "I doubt it," said the Carpenter,
      And shed a bitter tear.

     "O Oysters, come and walk with us!"
      The Walrus did beseech.
     "A pleasant walk, a pleasant talk,
      Along the briny beach:
     We cannot do with more than four,
      To give a hand to each."

     The eldest Oyster looked at him.
      But never a word he said:
     The eldest Oyster winked his eye,
      And shook his heavy head--
     Meaning to say he did not choose
      To leave the oyster-bed.

     But four young oysters hurried up,
      All eager for the treat:
     Their coats were brushed, their faces washed,
      Their shoes were clean and neat--
     And this was odd, because, you know,
      They hadn't any feet.

     Four other Oysters followed them,
      And yet another four;
     And thick and fast they came at last,
      And more, and more, and more--
     All hopping through the frothy waves,
      And scrambling to the shore.

     The Walrus and the Carpenter
      Walked on a mile or so,
     And then they rested on a rock
      Conveniently low:
     And all the little Oysters stood
      And waited in a row.

     "The time has come," the Walrus said,
      "To talk of many things:
     Of shoes--and ships--and sealing-wax--
      Of cabbages--and kings--
     And why the sea is boiling hot--
      And whether pigs have wings."

     "But wait a bit," the Oysters cried,
      "Before we have our chat;
     For some of us are out of breath,
      And all of us are fat!"
     "No hurry!" said the Carpenter.
      They thanked him much for that.

     "A loaf of bread," the Walrus said,
      "Is what we chiefly need:
     Pepper and vinegar besides
      Are very good indeed--
     Now if you're ready Oysters dear,
      We can begin to feed."

     "But not on us!" the Oysters cried,
      Turning a little blue,
     "After such kindness, that would be
      A dismal thing to do!"
     "The night is fine," the Walrus said
      "Do you admire the view?

     "It was so kind of you to come!
      And you are very nice!"
     The Carpenter said nothing but
      "Cut us another slice:
     I wish you were not quite so deaf--
      I've had to ask you twice!"

     "It seems a shame," the Walrus said,
      "To play them such a trick,
     After we've brought them out so far,
      And made them trot so quick!"
     The Carpenter said nothing but
      "The butter's spread too thick!"

     "I weep for you," the Walrus said.
      "I deeply sympathize."
     With sobs and tears he sorted out
      Those of the largest size.
     Holding his pocket handkerchief
      Before his streaming eyes.

     "O Oysters," said the Carpenter.
      "You've had a pleasant run!
     Shall we be trotting home again?"
      But answer came there none--
     And that was scarcely odd, because
      They'd eaten every one.'

'I like the Walrus best,' said Alice: 'because you see he was a LITTLE
sorry for the poor oysters.'

'He ate more than the Carpenter, though,' said Tweedledee. 'You see he
held his handkerchief in front, so that the Carpenter couldn't count how
many he took: contrariwise.'

'That was mean!' Alice said indignantly. 'Then I like the Carpenter
best--if he didn't eat so many as the Walrus.'

'But he ate as many as he could get,' said Tweedledum.

This was a puzzler. After a pause, Alice began, 'Well! They were BOTH
very unpleasant characters--' Here she checked herself in some alarm,
at hearing something that sounded to her like the puffing of a large
steam-engine in the wood near them, though she feared it was more likely
to be a wild beast. 'Are there any lions or tigers about here?' she
asked timidly.

'It's only the Red King snoring,' said Tweedledee.

'Come and look at him!' the brothers cried, and they each took one of
Alice's hands, and led her up to where the King was sleeping.

'Isn't he a LOVELY sight?' said Tweedledum.

Alice couldn't say honestly that he was. He had a tall red night-cap on,
with a tassel, and he was lying crumpled up into a sort of untidy heap,
and snoring loud--'fit to snore his head off!' as Tweedledum remarked.

'I'm afraid he'll catch cold with lying on the damp grass,' said Alice,
who was a very thoughtful little girl.

'He's dreaming now,' said Tweedledee: 'and what do you think he's
dreaming about?'

Alice said 'Nobody can guess that.'

'Why, about YOU!' Tweedledee exclaimed, clapping his hands triumphantly.
'And if he left off dreaming about you, where do you suppose you'd be?'

'Where I am now, of course,' said Alice.

'Not you!' Tweedledee retorted contemptuously. 'You'd be nowhere. Why,
you're only a sort of thing in his dream!'

'If that there King was to wake,' added Tweedledum, 'you'd go
out--bang!--just like a candle!'

'I shouldn't!' Alice exclaimed indignantly. 'Besides, if I'M only a sort
of thing in his dream, what are YOU, I should like to know?'

'Ditto' said Tweedledum.

'Ditto, ditto' cried Tweedledee.

He shouted this so loud that Alice couldn't help saying, 'Hush! You'll
be waking him, I'm afraid, if you make so much noise.'

'Well, it no use YOUR talking about waking him,' said Tweedledum, 'when
you're only one of the things in his dream. You know very well you're
not real.'

'I AM real!' said Alice and began to cry.

'You won't make yourself a bit realler by crying,' Tweedledee remarked:
'there's nothing to cry about.'

'If I wasn't real,' Alice said--half-laughing through her tears, it all
seemed so ridiculous--'I shouldn't be able to cry.'

'I hope you don't suppose those are real tears?' Tweedledum interrupted
in a tone of great contempt.

'I know they're talking nonsense,' Alice thought to herself: 'and it's
foolish to cry about it.' So she brushed away her tears, and went on as
cheerfully as she could. 'At any rate I'd better be getting out of the
wood, for really it's coming on very dark. Do you think it's going to
rain?'

Tweedledum spread a large umbrella over himself and his brother, and
looked up into it. 'No, I don't think it is,' he said: 'at least--not
under HERE. Nohow.'

'But it may rain OUTSIDE?'

'It may--if it chooses,' said Tweedledee: 'we've no objection.
Contrariwise.'

'Selfish things!' thought Alice, and she was just going to say
'Good-night' and leave them, when Tweedledum sprang out from under the
umbrella and seized her by the wrist.

'Do you see THAT?' he said, in a voice choking with passion, and
his eyes grew large and yellow all in a moment, as he pointed with a
trembling finger at a small white thing lying under the tree.

'It's only a rattle,' Alice said, after a careful examination of the
little white thing. 'Not a rattleSNAKE, you know,' she added hastily,
thinking that he was frightened: 'only an old rattle--quite old and
broken.'

'I knew it was!' cried Tweedledum, beginning to stamp about wildly and
tear his hair. 'It's spoilt, of course!' Here he looked at Tweedledee,
who immediately sat down on the ground, and tried to hide himself under
the umbrella.

Alice laid her hand upon his arm, and said in a soothing tone, 'You
needn't be so angry about an old rattle.'

'But it isn't old!' Tweedledum cried, in a greater fury than ever. 'It's
new, I tell you--I bought it yesterday--my nice new RATTLE!' and his
voice rose to a perfect scream.

All this time Tweedledee was trying his best to fold up the umbrella,
with himself in it: which was such an extraordinary thing to do, that it
quite took off Alice's attention from the angry brother. But he couldn't
quite succeed, and it ended in his rolling over, bundled up in the
umbrella, with only his head out: and there he lay, opening and shutting
his mouth and his large eyes--'looking more like a fish than anything
else,' Alice thought.

'Of course you agree to have a battle?' Tweedledum said in a calmer
tone.

'I suppose so,' the other sulkily replied, as he crawled out of the
umbrella: 'only SHE must help us to dress up, you know.'

So the two brothers went off hand-in-hand into the wood, and returned
in a minute with their arms full of things--such as bolsters, blankets,
hearth-rugs, table-cloths, dish-covers and coal-scuttles. 'I hope you're
a good hand at pinning and tying strings?' Tweedledum remarked. 'Every
one of these things has got to go on, somehow or other.'

Alice said afterwards she had never seen such a fuss made about anything
in all her life--the way those two bustled about--and the quantity of
things they put on--and the trouble they gave her in tying strings and
fastening buttons--'Really they'll be more like bundles of old clothes
than anything else, by the time they're ready!' she said to herself, as
she arranged a bolster round the neck of Tweedledee, 'to keep his head
from being cut off,' as he said.

'You know,' he added very gravely, 'it's one of the most serious things
that can possibly happen to one in a battle--to get one's head cut off.'

Alice laughed aloud: but she managed to turn it into a cough, for fear
of hurting his feelings.

'Do I look very pale?' said Tweedledum, coming up to have his helmet
tied on. (He CALLED it a helmet, though it certainly looked much more
like a saucepan.)

'Well--yes--a LITTLE,' Alice replied gently.

'I'm very brave generally,' he went on in a low voice: 'only to-day I
happen to have a headache.'

'And I'VE got a toothache!' said Tweedledee, who had overheard the
remark. 'I'm far worse off than you!'

'Then you'd better not fight to-day,' said Alice, thinking it a good
opportunity to make peace.

'We MUST have a bit of a fight, but I don't care about going on long,'
said Tweedledum. 'What's the time now?'

Tweedledee looked at his watch, and said 'Half-past four.'

'Let's fight till six, and then have dinner,' said Tweedledum.

'Very well,' the other said, rather sadly: 'and SHE can watch us--only
you'd better not come VERY close,' he added: 'I generally hit everything
I can see--when I get really excited.'

'And _I_ hit everything within reach,' cried Tweedledum, 'whether I can
see it or not!'

Alice laughed. 'You must hit the TREES pretty often, I should think,'
she said.

Tweedledum looked round him with a satisfied smile. 'I don't suppose,'
he said, 'there'll be a tree left standing, for ever so far round, by
the time we've finished!'

'And all about a rattle!' said Alice, still hoping to make them a LITTLE
ashamed of fighting for such a trifle.

'I shouldn't have minded it so much,' said Tweedledum, 'if it hadn't
been a new one.'

'I wish the monstrous crow would come!' thought Alice.

'There's only one sword, you know,' Tweedledum said to his brother:
'but you can have the umbrella--it's quite as sharp. Only we must begin
quick. It's getting as dark as it can.'

'And darker,' said Tweedledee.

It was getting dark so suddenly that Alice thought there must be a
thunderstorm coming on. 'What a thick black cloud that is!' she said.
'And how fast it comes! Why, I do believe it's got wings!'

'It's the crow!' Tweedledum cried out in a shrill voice of alarm: and
the two brothers took to their heels and were out of sight in a moment.

Alice ran a little way into the wood, and stopped under a large tree.
'It can never get at me HERE,' she thought: 'it's far too large to
squeeze itself in among the trees. But I wish it wouldn't flap its wings
so--it makes quite a hurricane in the wood--here's somebody's shawl
being blown away!'




CHAPTER V. Wool and Water

She caught the shawl as she spoke, and looked about for the owner: in
another moment the White Queen came running wildly through the wood,
with both arms stretched out wide, as if she were flying, and Alice very
civilly went to meet her with the shawl.

'I'm very glad I happened to be in the way,' Alice said, as she helped
her to put on her shawl again.

The White Queen only looked at her in a helpless frightened sort of way,
and kept repeating something in a whisper to herself that sounded like
'bread-and-butter, bread-and-butter,' and Alice felt that if there was
to be any conversation at all, she must manage it herself. So she began
rather timidly: 'Am I addressing the White Queen?'

'Well, yes, if you call that a-dressing,' The Queen said. 'It isn't MY
notion of the thing, at all.'

Alice thought it would never do to have an argument at the very
beginning of their conversation, so she smiled and said, 'If your
Majesty will only tell me the right way to begin, I'll do it as well as
I can.'

'But I don't want it done at all!' groaned the poor Queen. 'I've been
a-dressing myself for the last two hours.'

It would have been all the better, as it seemed to Alice, if she had got
some one else to dress her, she was so dreadfully untidy. 'Every
single thing's crooked,' Alice thought to herself, 'and she's all over
pins!--may I put your shawl straight for you?' she added aloud.

'I don't know what's the matter with it!' the Queen said, in a
melancholy voice. 'It's out of temper, I think. I've pinned it here, and
I've pinned it there, but there's no pleasing it!'

'It CAN'T go straight, you know, if you pin it all on one side,' Alice
said, as she gently put it right for her; 'and, dear me, what a state
your hair is in!'

'The brush has got entangled in it!' the Queen said with a sigh. 'And I
lost the comb yesterday.'

Alice carefully released the brush, and did her best to get the hair
into order. 'Come, you look rather better now!' she said, after altering
most of the pins. 'But really you should have a lady's maid!'

'I'm sure I'll take you with pleasure!' the Queen said. 'Twopence a
week, and jam every other day.'

Alice couldn't help laughing, as she said, 'I don't want you to hire
ME--and I don't care for jam.'

'It's very good jam,' said the Queen.

'Well, I don't want any TO-DAY, at any rate.'

'You couldn't have it if you DID want it,' the Queen said. 'The rule is,
jam to-morrow and jam yesterday--but never jam to-day.'

'It MUST come sometimes to "jam to-day,"' Alice objected.

'No, it can't,' said the Queen. 'It's jam every OTHER day: to-day isn't
any OTHER day, you know.'

'I don't understand you,' said Alice. 'It's dreadfully confusing!'

'That's the effect of living backwards,' the Queen said kindly: 'it
always makes one a little giddy at first--'

'Living backwards!' Alice repeated in great astonishment. 'I never heard
of such a thing!'

'--but there's one great advantage in it, that one's memory works both
ways.'

'I'm sure MINE only works one way,' Alice remarked. 'I can't remember
things before they happen.'

'It's a poor sort of memory that only works backwards,' the Queen
remarked.

'What sort of things do YOU remember best?' Alice ventured to ask.

'Oh, things that happened the week after next,' the Queen replied in a
careless tone. 'For instance, now,' she went on, sticking a large piece
of plaster [band-aid] on her finger as she spoke, 'there's the King's
Messenger. He's in prison now, being punished: and the trial doesn't
even begin till next Wednesday: and of course the crime comes last of
all.'

'Suppose he never commits the crime?' said Alice.

'That would be all the better, wouldn't it?' the Queen said, as she
bound the plaster round her finger with a bit of ribbon.

Alice felt there was no denying THAT. 'Of course it would be all
the better,' she said: 'but it wouldn't be all the better his being
punished.'

'You're wrong THERE, at any rate,' said the Queen: 'were YOU ever
punished?'

'Only for faults,' said Alice.

'And you were all the better for it, I know!' the Queen said
triumphantly.

'Yes, but then I HAD done the things I was punished for,' said Alice:
'that makes all the difference.'

'But if you HADN'T done them,' the Queen said, 'that would have been
better still; better, and better, and better!' Her voice went higher
with each 'better,' till it got quite to a squeak at last.

Alice was just beginning to say 'There's a mistake somewhere--,' when
the Queen began screaming so loud that she had to leave the sentence
unfinished. 'Oh, oh, oh!' shouted the Queen, shaking her hand about as
if she wanted to shake it off. 'My finger's bleeding! Oh, oh, oh, oh!'

Her screams were so exactly like the whistle of a steam-engine, that
Alice had to hold both her hands over her ears.

'What IS the matter?' she said, as soon as there was a chance of making
herself heard. 'Have you pricked your finger?'

'I haven't pricked it YET,' the Queen said, 'but I soon shall--oh, oh,
oh!'

'When do you expect to do it?' Alice asked, feeling very much inclined
to laugh.

'When I fasten my shawl again,' the poor Queen groaned out: 'the brooch
will come undone directly. Oh, oh!' As she said the words the brooch
flew open, and the Queen clutched wildly at it, and tried to clasp it
again.

'Take care!' cried Alice. 'You're holding it all crooked!' And she
caught at the brooch; but it was too late: the pin had slipped, and the
Queen had pricked her finger.

'That accounts for the bleeding, you see,' she said to Alice with a
smile. 'Now you understand the way things happen here.'

'But why don't you scream now?' Alice asked, holding her hands ready to
put over her ears again.

'Why, I've done all the screaming already,' said the Queen. 'What would
be the good of having it all over again?'

By this time it was getting light. 'The crow must have flown away, I
think,' said Alice: 'I'm so glad it's gone. I thought it was the night
coming on.'

'I wish _I_ could manage to be glad!' the Queen said. 'Only I never
can remember the rule. You must be very happy, living in this wood, and
being glad whenever you like!'

'Only it is so VERY lonely here!' Alice said in a melancholy voice; and
at the thought of her loneliness two large tears came rolling down her
cheeks.

'Oh, don't go on like that!' cried the poor Queen, wringing her hands in
despair. 'Consider what a great girl you are. Consider what a long way
you've come to-day. Consider what o'clock it is. Consider anything, only
don't cry!'

Alice could not help laughing at this, even in the midst of her tears.
'Can YOU keep from crying by considering things?' she asked.

'That's the way it's done,' the Queen said with great decision: 'nobody
can do two things at once, you know. Let's consider your age to begin
with--how old are you?'

'I'm seven and a half exactly.'

'You needn't say "exactually,"' the Queen remarked: 'I can believe
it without that. Now I'll give YOU something to believe. I'm just one
hundred and one, five months and a day.'

'I can't believe THAT!' said Alice.

'Can't you?' the Queen said in a pitying tone. 'Try again: draw a long
breath, and shut your eyes.'

Alice laughed. 'There's no use trying,' she said: 'one CAN'T believe
impossible things.'

'I daresay you haven't had much practice,' said the Queen. 'When I was
your age, I always did it for half-an-hour a day. Why, sometimes I've
believed as many as six impossible things before breakfast. There goes
the shawl again!'

The brooch had come undone as she spoke, and a sudden gust of wind blew
the Queen's shawl across a little brook. The Queen spread out her arms
again, and went flying after it, and this time she succeeded in catching
it for herself. 'I've got it!' she cried in a triumphant tone. 'Now you
shall see me pin it on again, all by myself!'

'Then I hope your finger is better now?' Alice said very politely, as
she crossed the little brook after the Queen.

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

'Oh, much better!' cried the Queen, her voice rising to a squeak as she
went on. 'Much be-etter! Be-etter! Be-e-e-etter! Be-e-ehh!' The last
word ended in a long bleat, so like a sheep that Alice quite started.

She looked at the Queen, who seemed to have suddenly wrapped herself up
in wool. Alice rubbed her eyes, and looked again. She couldn't make out
what had happened at all. Was she in a shop? And was that really--was it
really a SHEEP that was sitting on the other side of the counter? Rub as
she could, she could make nothing more of it: she was in a little dark
shop, leaning with her elbows on the counter, and opposite to her was
an old Sheep, sitting in an arm-chair knitting, and every now and then
leaving off to look at her through a great pair of spectacles.

'What is it you want to buy?' the Sheep said at last, looking up for a
moment from her knitting.

'I don't QUITE know yet,' Alice said, very gently. 'I should like to
look all round me first, if I might.'

'You may look in front of you, and on both sides, if you like,' said the
Sheep: 'but you can't look ALL round you--unless you've got eyes at the
back of your head.'

But these, as it happened, Alice had NOT got: so she contented herself
with turning round, looking at the shelves as she came to them.

The shop seemed to be full of all manner of curious things--but the
oddest part of it all was, that whenever she looked hard at any shelf,
to make out exactly what it had on it, that particular shelf was always
quite empty: though the others round it were crowded as full as they
could hold.

'Things flow about so here!' she said at last in a plaintive tone, after
she had spent a minute or so in vainly pursuing a large bright thing,
that looked sometimes like a doll and sometimes like a work-box, and was
always in the shelf next above the one she was looking at. 'And this one
is the most provoking of all--but I'll tell you what--' she added, as a
sudden thought struck her, 'I'll follow it up to the very top shelf of
all. It'll puzzle it to go through the ceiling, I expect!'

But even this plan failed: the 'thing' went through the ceiling as
quietly as possible, as if it were quite used to it.

'Are you a child or a teetotum?' the Sheep said, as she took up another
pair of needles. 'You'll make me giddy soon, if you go on turning round
like that.' She was now working with fourteen pairs at once, and Alice
couldn't help looking at her in great astonishment.

'How CAN she knit with so many?' the puzzled child thought to herself.
'She gets more and more like a porcupine every minute!'

'Can you row?' the Sheep asked, handing her a pair of knitting-needles
as she spoke.

'Yes, a little--but not on land--and not with needles--' Alice was
beginning to say, when suddenly the needles turned into oars in her
hands, and she found they were in a little boat, gliding along between
banks: so there was nothing for it but to do her best.

'Feather!' cried the Sheep, as she took up another pair of needles.

This didn't sound like a remark that needed any answer, so Alice said
nothing, but pulled away. There was something very queer about the
water, she thought, as every now and then the oars got fast in it, and
would hardly come out again.

'Feather! Feather!' the Sheep cried again, taking more needles. 'You'll
be catching a crab directly.'

'A dear little crab!' thought Alice. 'I should like that.'

'Didn't you hear me say "Feather"?' the Sheep cried angrily, taking up
quite a bunch of needles.

'Indeed I did,' said Alice: 'you've said it very often--and very loud.
Please, where ARE the crabs?'

'In the water, of course!' said the Sheep, sticking some of the needles
into her hair, as her hands were full. 'Feather, I say!'

'WHY do you say "feather" so often?' Alice asked at last, rather vexed.
'I'm not a bird!'

'You are,' said the Sheep: 'you're a little goose.'

This offended Alice a little, so there was no more conversation for a
minute or two, while the boat glided gently on, sometimes among beds of
weeds (which made the oars stick fast in the water, worse then ever),
and sometimes under trees, but always with the same tall river-banks
frowning over their heads.

'Oh, please! There are some scented rushes!' Alice cried in a sudden
transport of delight. 'There really are--and SUCH beauties!'

'You needn't say "please" to ME about 'em,' the Sheep said, without
looking up from her knitting: 'I didn't put 'em there, and I'm not going
to take 'em away.'

'No, but I meant--please, may we wait and pick some?' Alice pleaded. 'If
you don't mind stopping the boat for a minute.'

'How am _I_ to stop it?' said the Sheep. 'If you leave off rowing, it'll
stop of itself.'

So the boat was left to drift down the stream as it would, till it
glided gently in among the waving rushes. And then the little sleeves
were carefully rolled up, and the little arms were plunged in elbow-deep
to get the rushes a good long way down before breaking them off--and for
a while Alice forgot all about the Sheep and the knitting, as she
bent over the side of the boat, with just the ends of her tangled hair
dipping into the water--while with bright eager eyes she caught at one
bunch after another of the darling scented rushes.

'I only hope the boat won't tipple over!' she said to herself. 'Oh, WHAT
a lovely one! Only I couldn't quite reach it.' 'And it certainly DID
seem a little provoking ('almost as if it happened on purpose,' she
thought) that, though she managed to pick plenty of beautiful rushes as
the boat glided by, there was always a more lovely one that she couldn't
reach.

'The prettiest are always further!' she said at last, with a sigh at the
obstinacy of the rushes in growing so far off, as, with flushed cheeks
and dripping hair and hands, she scrambled back into her place, and
began to arrange her new-found treasures.

What mattered it to her just then that the rushes had begun to fade, and
to lose all their scent and beauty, from the very moment that she
picked them? Even real scented rushes, you know, last only a very little
while--and these, being dream-rushes, melted away almost like snow, as
they lay in heaps at her feet--but Alice hardly noticed this, there were
so many other curious things to think about.

They hadn't gone much farther before the blade of one of the oars got
fast in the water and WOULDN'T come out again (so Alice explained it
afterwards), and the consequence was that the handle of it caught her
under the chin, and, in spite of a series of little shrieks of 'Oh, oh,
oh!' from poor Alice, it swept her straight off the seat, and down among
the heap of rushes.

However, she wasn't hurt, and was soon up again: the Sheep went on with
her knitting all the while, just as if nothing had happened. 'That was
a nice crab you caught!' she remarked, as Alice got back into her place,
very much relieved to find herself still in the boat.

'Was it? I didn't see it,' Said Alice, peeping cautiously over the side
of the boat into the dark water. 'I wish it hadn't let go--I should
so like to see a little crab to take home with me!' But the Sheep only
laughed scornfully, and went on with her knitting.

'Are there many crabs here?' said Alice.

'Crabs, and all sorts of things,' said the Sheep: 'plenty of choice,
only make up your mind. Now, what DO you want to buy?'

'To buy!' Alice echoed in a tone that was half astonished and half
frightened--for the oars, and the boat, and the river, had vanished all
in a moment, and she was back again in the little dark shop.

'I should like to buy an egg, please,' she said timidly. 'How do you
sell them?'

'Fivepence farthing for one--Twopence for two,' the Sheep replied.

'Then two are cheaper than one?' Alice said in a surprised tone, taking
out her purse.

'Only you MUST eat them both, if you buy two,' said the Sheep.

'Then I'll have ONE, please,' said Alice, as she put the money down on
the counter. For she thought to herself, 'They mightn't be at all nice,
you know.'

The Sheep took the money, and put it away in a box: then she said 'I
never put things into people's hands--that would never do--you must get
it for yourself.' And so saying, she went off to the other end of the
shop, and set the egg upright on a shelf.

'I wonder WHY it wouldn't do?' thought Alice, as she groped her way
among the tables and chairs, for the shop